# BitcoinPrediction
Python Bitcoin Prediction using artificial neural networks.

The goal of this project was to experiment with neural networks to predict hourly bitcoin prices/movements.

The first step was to create a dataset. BCDataYF.py achieves this. This script queries Yahoo Finance and gets hourly prices for the past year and a half, some of the data points include open, close, high, low etc. This script goes one step further and adds extra data points for each hour. These include simple moving averages, exponential moving aerages, and relative strenght indexes. SMA's are the average price over a given period, EMA's are an average of a given period that put more weight on recent prices, RSI's account for the average growth and average loss of a given period which can help to indicate momentum. All these data points are then saved to finalData.csv.

Next is to create the neural network model, this is done in BCHourly.ipynb. First the data from finalData.csv is normalised between 0 and 1, this should help create a more accurate model. I used keras' LSTM layers as this problem is a time series problem. LSTM's can proccess a sequence of data so historical data points are accounted for. To train the LSTM model the data had to be reshaped with the time stamp that was wanted in mind. With some experimentation with epochs, time steps and number of layers, i achieved an average price prediction accuracy of within 1.2% with a 10 hour step model.

To test the model I coded modelDryRun.py which retrieves bitcoin data every hour from yahoo finance and adds the extra data such as SMAs, EMAs and RSIs. This data is given to the model to predict the price in an hour. This prediction along with the current price is saved in dryRun.csv. After running this for over a week, i found the 1.2% accuracy was accurate but not very useful. The average hourly movement of bitcoin is 0.4% roughly, my model's accuracy is 3 times this. I also found the model predicted the price would drop the vast majority of the time, 95%+. I'm not sure if this is an issue with the model or if bitcoin is bearish at the time of testing.

I'd like to explore other neural network variants and data manipulation to try and improve model accuracy. I also want to experiment with bayesian regression to make predictions as others have found success with such methods, for example https://dspace.mit.edu/bitstream/handle/1721.1/101044/Shah_Bayesian%20regression.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y
